Prostate cancer screening: take the test or not?
Indeed, the PSA test sometimes shows erroneous results with false negative or even false positive results, which involve unnecessary medical interventions.
Enough to make already reluctant men hesitate to take screening tests.
Take the test or not?
We asked two specialists for their opinion.
In studies conducted in the United States, there was a lot of contamination between control groups, so it is difficult to interpret the data and make firm recommendations.
Another study, this time a European one, concluded that there was a difference in mortality between patients who were screened and those who were not.
This study also showed, with a follow-up after 12 years, that it is between 30 and 40% more likely for metastases to occur in the absence of screening.
I therefore recommend the test from age 50, or 40 if you have a direct relative who previously had prostate cancer.
African-American men are also more at risk.
The key is to make the right decision once cancer has been detected.
There are aggressive cancers and others that are indolent.
The patient really needs to be made to understand the degree of risk of his cancer, by offering him the options available, not necessarily treating prostate cancers that are not long-term life threatening, and opting instead, in such cases, for active monitoring of the disease.
Today, many men in whom cancer has been detected will not be treated because their cancer is not aggressive and is not life threatening.
Active monitoring will be suggested, and if the disease progresses, they will be offered treatment.
More and more, specific criteria are being determined in order to decide who should or should not be treated.
Therefore I recommend taking the test.
But the important thing is to have a discussion with your doctor to determine whether or not to take it.
In collaboration with the Société internationale d'urologie [SIU], Movember has created a tool that makes it possible to evaluate the pros and cons of the PSA test.
You can download the document (in English for the time being, a [French] translation will be available shortly) at this address: http://ca.movember.com/fr/mens-health/prostate-cancer-screening
Preventing the disease
Unfortunately, there is no miracle recipe for preventing cancer.
Despite the progress in research, the adoption of healthy living habits remains the best way to reduce the risk of suffering from it.
It is estimated that if everyone ate well and exercised enough, 30% of cancers could be prevented.
"If no more people smoked, this rate would increase to at least 50%," says André Beaulieu, spokesman for the Canadian Cancer Society.
On the other hand, it is estimated that roughly 10% of cancers are hereditary.
Some are also completely unexplained.
For the Canadian Cancer Society, the fight against tobacco remains a priority, despite the decrease in the number of smokers.
Cigarettes are linked to 85% of lung cancer cases.
It is also a risk factor for a number of others.
This massively damages people's health.
"Even today, there are 1.5 million smokers in Quebec" deplores spokesperson André Beaulieu.
Encouraging data: 10 years after giving up smoking, the risk of dying from cancer drops by half.
Weight
Overweight and obesity are also conducive to the onset of the disease, according to the SCC.
They can increase the risks of cancer of the breast, colon and rectum, oesophagus, pancreas and uterus.
"Research shows that the regular practice of physical activity throughout your life protects against colon cancer" it is also said.
Diet
The organisation also recommends limiting your consumption of red meat.
In large amounts, it increases the risks of developing colo-rectal cancer.
Likewise, so do cured meat products, and these should be avoided.
The conservation of meat by smoking, drying or curing can cause the formation of carcinogens.
"They can damage cells in the body and lead to the development of cancer" it is explained.
Vitamins
In recent years, a number of scientists have studied the links between vitamin supplements and cancer.
For the time being however their research is inconclusive.
Studies on vitamin E are contradictory, according to the SCC.
While one study noted a decrease in the risk of prostate cancer, another noted an increase.
Also the effect of vitamin D on cancer is not clear.
In addition, Mr Beaulieu emphasises the importance of discussing your concerns and family history with your doctor.
"Taking a screening test doesn't give you cancer."
