Labour Minister Mónika Lamperth appears not to have a sensitive side: she is holding an end-year staff conference instead of a Christmas party, though coffee and savory scones will be served.
Other ministries plan parties with live bands, while still others are giving out raffle tickets and a glass or two of Christmas spirits to enhance the mood and find a way into the hearts of staff.
Celebrations, Christmas spirit, concerts and smorgasbord - how the powerful party.
Government offices also get ready for Christmas.
This year the defence ministry is planning the biggest ministry Christmas party, but the guests won't been ministry staffers.
It's Orphans' Christmas will have gifts for the children of soldiers killed while serving, it's Mission Christmas will invite the families of soldiers currently serving in international missions, and its press reception will be for the media.
The ministry plans on spending 25 million for year-end mood enhancement.
The National Development Agency   (  NFÜ  )   and the Ministry of Economics and Transport   (  GKM  )   are kicking up their heels and partying more ardently than the other government offices.
GKM is holding its party at the House of the Future, and spending HUF 4,320,000 on the package for about 350 of its 600 staff members.
It is focusing on creating a true Christmas atmosphere, and will have live performers and a raffle with prizes.
NFÜ spent 4,700,000 forints on its Christmas cheer, holding its celebration at the headquarters of the National Justice Administration Council   (  OIT  )   on Wednesday. It is offering guests a series of concert performances and dinner.
The hall rental cost one million forints, and the rest went on the more than four hundred invited guests.
We have been told that one division within NFÜ has been invited to another Christmas party, too: a bid management company, the Hungarian Economic Development Centre   (  MAG Zrt  )  , will be celebrating with EU money.
It rented out the entire Vígszínház theatre for the event.
MAG Zrt did not confirm this, as we were unable to find anyone in charge.
Informal dress is fine.
OIT headquarters played host not only to NFÜ but also to the Justice and Law Enforcement Ministry, which decided to hold a Lucia Day ball on December 7, instead of a Christmas party.
OIT did not charge this group for use of its building.
About 500 people attended the ball.
The party got underway with a toast by the minister, and after the dinner there was dancing to live music.
When questioned [by origo] they said that formal dress was not mandatory for either women or men.
The ministries of health, labour and local government organized more puritan dances.
The health ministry ran a celebration for its staff at its own headquarters, spending 400,000 forints on the event.
Labour Minister Mónika Lamperth didn't even call it a Christmas party, just a year-end staff conference.
The ministry expects 180 guests, said its media department, who will be offered only coffee and savory scones to stay within a budget of HUF 350.000.
Local Government Minister Gordon Bajnai plans only to drink a simple toast with staff in the assembly hall of the Ministry for Local Government and Regional Development.
The finance ministry   (  PM  )   is holding a Christmas gathering in its own assembly hall and has invited 436 staff members.
It plans to spend HUF 2,500 per guest for the Christmas party, which will include a smorgasbord buffet and one toast per person.
PM workers have welcomed Christmas in this fashion every year since János Veres became minister.
People don't actually plan to party - the mood will remain official, thanks partly to the minister who intends to make a speech, and partly to the timing - it will be in the afternoon.
The farm ministry is holding off for a New Year's reception, which will be on January 20, so there won't be any Christmas celebration.
Its reception will be at a Vajdahunyad castle in the City Park, and the ministry reported that it plans to spend 1,000 forints per guest, for 100 guests.
The media department underlined that it was offering a very simple buffet meal, to which it was inviting only the professional diplomats accredited to Hungary.
The reception, a repeat of one held annually for some time now, will again begin with a brief greeting from the minister and end with just a bit of snacking.
The foreign and education ministries do not intend to hold any Christmas parties at all, the media departments told Origo.
The environment ministry was unable to tell us the cost of its office Christmas.
At any rate, it has invited over 400 guests to a party it plans to hold at the Museum of Applied Arts.
