His beauty and his blue eyes were for a long time his main asset, some would say his weakness.
Did he free himself from this narcissistic mirror, this American actor with the charming smile?
Yes and no.
His modesty, his sensitivity and an abundance of talent would have also distanced him from the power register which gives birth to real sacred monsters.
But what a great runner till the end!
Paul Newman, who died on Friday, aged 83, as a result of lung cancer at his ranch in Connecticut, remains one of the last icons of American cinema from the years of splendour.
Less monumental than Brando, who he resembled and was a long time sort of rival on the screen, more cautious in his game, certainly more fragile, but also an apostle of freedom and the breaking of dramatic conventions.
Mixed blood children are often magnificent.
He was born in Ohio in 1925, from a Jewish German father and a mother of Hungarian origin.
From these European roots were born the glorious faces of the American dream.
Without an excessive ego, the ultimate mark of quality.
Because in him is portrayed a country-loving self made man, a combatant in the Pacific War, wounded in combat, who in the early 50's studied drama at Yale and attended the Actor's Studio in New York, before triumphing at the theatre, on television, soon after at the cinema.
The same man who fought for civil rights was also the driver who ranked second in the 24 Hours Le Mans in 1979, doubled as a sex symbol, albeit a member of a model couple formed since 1958 with the actress Joanne Woodward.
Also disappearing with him are the shadowy areas of this secret star, discreet, committed, allergic to the scandals of show business, which have definitely not penetrated the enigma.
An honest man in the noblest sense of the word.
The disappearance of Paul Newman brought vertigo to moviegoers this weekend, while his major roles collide on the black screen of memories.
More than half a century of a seventh American art which is constantly changing scrolls through him.
Rushing back into memory are the charming cowboy in Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid   (  1969  )  , the young man rejecting his sensual wife   (  Elizabeth Taylor  )   in The Cat on a Hot Tin Roof adapted from Tennessee Williams in 1958.
Closer to us   (  1990  )  , one evokes his sensitive Mr. Bridge, disturbed in his old age by a marriage that did not fulfil all its promises.
So many other Paul Newman have passed into history.
The boxer Rocky Graziano, delinquent, tormented, violent, unforgettable in Somebody Up There Likes Me   (  marked by hatred  )  , Robert Wise, a role destined for James Dean, taken after his death, which really launched Newman in 1956.
This friendly crook in the most brilliant The Sting, Oscar for best film in 1973.
Billiard player bitter and vengeful in the magnificent The Hustler by Robert Rossen   (  1961  )  , he took up again the character on his return in The Color of Money by Martin Scorsese, who in 1987 won him his only Oscar with nine nominations.
This face throughout the ages, it was him.
Him again.
Eras jostle by through his journey.
Young people know him mainly through the cult of Slap Shot by George Roy Hill   (  1977  )  , as Reggie Dunlop, the coach of an unorthodox ice hockey team.
His fans met him again in 1994 in The Hudsucker Proxy by the Coen brothers.
With a last role as the godfather of an Irish mafia in Road to Perdition by Sam Mendes in 2003, the loop was closed.
Unlike several legends of the cinema who have dropped the trade early, Newman has remained in the saddle for a long time, while denouncing Hollywood, its gold, its splendour and its concessions.
The French filmmaker Bertrand Tavernier considered him, not without humour, "as a living challenge to "underplaying "judging his performances too supported.
The profession has not always been easy with the beautiful Paul Newman to whom roles came for a long time easy as pie.
He played though less often, in his first young roles, marginal characters: neurotics, alcoholics, bastards or desperate men, with his perfect traits reflecting the excesses and the rebellious.
As director, Newman revealed a little known aspect of his modest real sensitivity.
His Rachel, Rachel, in 1968   (  based on the novel by the Canadian Margaret Laurence  )  , with his wife Joanne Woodward in the lead role, drew a fine female portrait of melancholy.
He lost his son Scott to an overdose to whom he dedicated his film Harry and Son in 1984, out of decency and sadness.
Among the rain of tributes that fell on Newman yesterday, his great friend and former companion in arms Robert Redford   (  they played together in The Sting, and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid  )   said, very saddened: "His presence has made my life and this country better."
Generosity, love of life are the features of the vibrant actor just disappeared.
Beyond his legendary career, also erased was a great activist for civil rights, ecology, the independent cinema, a protestor against the excesses of Hollywood.
We saw his mug shots on a lot of jars of salad dressing, sauces, biscuits, and other foodstuffs, judging the process fairly tasteless, although a gag at the outset.
Profits from these sales were nevertheless paid to his Foundation for children in difficulty.
Newman, rather than sit on his myth, has remained committed until the end.
He left his five daughters a letter containing these words: "Always and to the end, your father has been incredibly grateful for his good fortune.
It has been a privilege being there."
And a privilege for us to have followed the trail of such a lucid and generous American artist.
A model citizen, in sum and in addition.
