The Messenger probe has found evidence of ice on the planet Mercury.
It is thought that the ice cover may be up to 20 metres thick.
The US space agency, NASA, has proven the existence of ice on the planet Mercury.
Although the planet lies closest to the sun, it does have frozen water - as shown in three studies published on Thursday in specialist magazine "Science."
The Messenger probe has found evidence that there is an ice cover in the region of the planet that lies permanently in shadow.
This is thought to be at east 30 centimetres and perhaps up to 20 metres thick.
The water presumably came from comets or perhaps also asteroids that impacted with Mercury.
However, no-one is linking the discovery of ice with the existence of life on the planet, said Chief Scientist for the Messenger probe, Sean Solomon.
The temperature on Mercury can reach up to 426 degrees Celsius.
That said, the findings could help explain how water and other building blocks of life reached other regions of the solar system.
Unknown to the majority of the Earth's inhabitants, there are probes, telescopes and small robots such as the Phoenix, deployed to research the depths of the universe.
From time to time, they transmit images to Earth: small peepholes into the infinite expanse.
This image comes from a camera developed by German researchers at the Max Planck Institute.
The eight planets of our solar system, plus the dwarf planet Ceres.
Like Pluto, which orbits around the sun behind Neptune, Ceres is not a planet according to the new definition of the term issued by the International Astronomical Union in 2006.
This image section from an infrared recording by the Spitzer telescope shows a "family portrait" of countless generations of stars: the oldest stars are seen as blue dots, while more difficult to identify are the pink-coloured "new-borns" in the star delivery room.
This star-forming region - rather unromantically named W5 by scientists - was discovered by the Spitzer telescope in the Cassiopeia constellation, at a distance of 6,500 light years away.
This shimmering glow of a dying star was captured by NASA's Spitzer telescope.
The donut-shaped ring consists of material, ejected by the star in the process of dying.
In the huge Trifid Nebula, 5,400 light years away from the Earth, new stars are created from gas and dust.
NASA's Spitzer telescope shot this photo of the galactic delivery room.
The Pleiades star cluster, also referred to as "The Seven Sisters," can be seen with the bare eye at night.
With the telescope, however, the colours really come into their own.
In this infrared photo, the Helix Nebula looks back at the observer like a red eye.
It is located 700 light years away in the Aquarius constellation.
Its similarity with the continent resulted in this Nebula acquiring the title 'North America'.
A combination of normal and infrared photography produced the spectacular colouring.
This baby star could only be captured in its full beauty using the Spitzer telescope's infrared detectors.
Saturn and its rings: How these occurred is the greatest puzzle in the field of astronomy.
Perhaps they are the remnants of a moon of Saturn, which disappeared without a trace 4.5 billion years ago.
One of the largest and sharpest pictures from the Hubble telescope: the Whirlpool Galaxy.
Depending on the colouring, photographs of spiral galaxies can become genuine works of art.
The photograph published by the European Southern Observatory shows the Trifid Nebula in the Sagittarius constellation, several thousand light years away.
The name Trifid stems from the Latin word trifidus    (   divided into three parts   )   , as dark stripes of dust divide the core of the birthplace of stars into three parts.
In the Ophiuchus constellation, astronomers have photographed the signs of a cosmic collision: 400 million light years from the earth, the cores of two merging galaxies move rapidly towards one another, destined to collide.
This star birth was captured by the Hubble telescope in the M83 spiral galaxy.
Anyone who doesn't like technical abbreviations may prefer to call it by its nickname, the Southern Catherine Wheel.
The photo taken by the Hubble space telescope shows a section of the Iris Nebula in the Cepheus constellation.
The nebula, 1,400 light years away, consists of particles of dust that are ten to one hundred times smaller than standard house dust.
This image was put together from the X-ray images captured by various telescopes.
It shows a ring of black holes, 430 million light years away from the Earth.
This group of galaxies, named Arp 273, was pictured for NASA by the Hubble space telescope.
Scientists call the larger spiral galaxy UGC 1810.
This star nebula is home to the brightest group of young stars in our Milky Way.
This 'star cradle' continually produces new youngsters.
Likewise, this star cloud, connected to the Rosette Nebula, continually produces new baby stars - 5000 light years away from the Earth.
In this bright shining galaxy with one small black hole, there exists no dust - only gas.
Researchers presume that it only came into being shortly after the Big Bang, when the universe was comprised primarily of hydrogen.
Our view of the universe: the most important telescopes.
The telescope is thought to have been invented in 1608 by Hans Lipperhey - even before Galileo Galilei used the device to observe the stars one year later.
Since then, the mirrors in optical telescopes have become increasingly large and the insights that they provide increasingly profound.
For a period of 30 years, namely from 1947 until 1975, the Hale telescope in the Palomar Observatory near San Diego was the largest telescope in the world.
The mirror, shown in the image, had a diameter of five metres.
Arizona, USA,is home to the Large Binocular Telescope.
It enables views of space via two mirrors, each with a diameter of 8.4 metres.
The inner workings of the Gran Telescopio Canarias on the Canarian island of La Palma are huge - the mirror alone has a diameter of 10.4 metres.
The mirror of the Southern African Large Telescope in South Africa is segmented - to reduce costs.
In spite of this it achieves a diameter of around eleven metres.
The disadvantage of this inexpensive construction method: the telescope is securely clamped at its angle of inclination and its movement is therefore limited.
The Hobby Eberly telescope in Texas also has a fixed angle of inclination.
What sets it apart: the high light-gathering capacity.
This - in spite of its comparatively low mirror diameter - even matches that of the world's largest reflector telescopes.
With the help of a radio telescope in Arecibo    (   Puerto Rico   )    researchers can listen for extraterrestrial signals in space.
The radio telescope has a diameter of 305 metres.
In the "Search for Extraterrestrial Intelligence"    (   SETI   )    every computer owner can be of assistance, by making his/her processing capacity available.
View of the European Southern Observatory    (   ESO   )    in the Chilean Andes.
This is home to the Very Large Telescope, which lives up to its name.
With its total of four mirrors, the telescope can also focus on the medial infrared spectrum.
Likewise to be located at the ESO Observatory in Chile, the European Extremely Large Telescope is also being planned.
Its main mirror is to span a full 42 metres and will be made from almost 1,000 mirror elements.
However, images are not to be expected until 2018 at the earliest.
Until 2007, the two Keck telescopes at the Hawaiian volcano, Mauna Kea, were the largest in the world.
They each have two mirrors, each with a diameter of ten meters.
The Keck Telescopes are part of the Mauna Kea Observatory, which alongside the Keck telescopes, can look to the heavens with the help of the Subaru telescope and the IRTTF.
Another huge new telescope is also to be built on the Mauna Kea, with a mirror diameter of thirty metres.
Here you can marvel at an artist's impression.
However, the most important insights into space are provided by the Hubble space telescope.
Since 24 April 1990 it has been supplying images of distant worlds.
Since March 2009 the Kepler space telescope has been searching for extra-solar planets, especially for any that may be inhabitable.
On 2 February 2011 it was announced by NASA that 1,235 planetary candidates had been identified since the mission began.
The image documents the final launch preparations on the Kepler space telescope.
The James Webb Space Telescope    (   JWST   )    will be launched into space on board an Ariane5 rocket by 2018 at the earliest.
The primary mirror of the infrared space telescope has a diameter of 6.5 metres.
One of the telescope's tasks is to search for light from the first stars and galaxies that emerged after the Big Bang.
Scientists are assuming that ice also exists at Mercury's south pole.
However, there is no reliable data in support of this as the Messenger orbits around the planets much closer to the north pole.
For decades, radar measurements have indicated that there is ice on Mercury.
Thanks to the Messenger probe that was launched in 2004, the first to orbit Mercury, scientists can now be certain.
