The most risk-taking bank in Europe is not in Italy or France, but in Switzerland.
UBS almost went bankrupt during the financial crisis and has been struggling from one crisis to the next ever since.
A German is now to bring it back in line.
Axel Weber certainly had not imagined that would be his role.
After his spectacular departure from the head of the Federal bank, it was announced in July that he would be starting an almost equally spectacular new job in 2013: Chairman of the Board of Directors of the major Swiss bank UBS - an unexpected and lucrative career move.
Axel Weber was clearly delighted, praising Switzerland for its beauty and UBS for its newly won solidity and making some friendly remarks about his future colleagues.
"UBS has managed to turn around."
"I am looking forward to working with Kaspar Villiger and Oswald Grübel."
But by September it was already clear that everything would be very different.
A UBS trader in London had bypassed all the bank's security systems and gambled away around 1.7 billion Euros.
UBS CEO, Oswald Grübel - a banker not only famous in Switzerland - had to go.
The UBS Chairman has been considered ailing ever since - and everyone is asking: when will Axel Weber finally arrive?
Weber is to advise the bank from February 2012.
And he will take on the role of Chairman of the Board in May, and not in 2013, the bank announced on Tuesday.
That will be tough for Axel Weber.
He is an economics professor and central banker, not a conventional banker, and clearly would need some time to adjust.
All at once, he is taking on responsibility for the strategy of a bank that has once again proven that it has long deserved the title of "Europe's biggest banking scandal."
UBS is both huge - it was the biggest asset manager in the world until recently - and has been struggling from one scandal to the next for years.
The proud Swiss bank, it seems, is to be spared nothing.
It began in the financial crisis.
UBS had an excellent reputation until 2007.
The bank combined the image of the secretive and solid, but equally savvy asset manager with ambitious targets, aiming to become a major player in investment banking.
As a result, in 2007 UBS was managing 1.6 billion, thereby managing more more money from wealthy clients than any other bank in the world,
and had risen to the league of the world's biggest banks as an investment bank.
That made an impression.
The former banker and long-standing banking professor at the Swiss Institute of Banking of the University of Zurich, Hans Geiger, explains: "I always presented UBS to my students as the model of a good bank."
"From what we know today, you have to ask how I could be so wrong."
He was very wrong indeed.
It only became clear in 2007 that something was really going very wrong at UBS.
In the middle of the year, CEO Peter Wuffli - considered a highly intellectual and equally brilliant banker - suddenly stepped down.
Some months later we could guess at why he had left.
The investment division of the bank had gambled on subprime securities and was forced to write off billions.
UBS announced a capital increase, believe it or not, of 13 billion Swiss francs to face the crisis.
The bank actually managed to find investors, but investors many bankers would have respectfully declined a short while earlier - a less than transparent Asian sovereign wealth fund from Singapore and an Arabic sovereign wealth fund that was so secretive, even its name was not disclosed.
That was just the first blow.
It got a lot worse in April 2008.
The bank was forced to announce new losses running into the billions and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Marcel Ospel - the second best paid chairman in Switzerland in 2006 - resigned.
Catastrophe followed in October 2008. UBS faced collapse from a lack of investment during the financial crisis and had to be saved by the state.
The National Bank bought up toxic securities from UBS for untold billions and the Swiss Confederation paid six billion Swiss francs for a mandatory convertible bond to become part owner of the bank.
The whole of Switzerland was shocked - the country recognised the dramatic consequences for a small country of being home to such large banks.
After all, the balance sheet total for UBS in 2007 was more than five times the economic output of Switzerland   (  see chart  )  .
"We would not be able to save the UBS for a second time," says banking researcher Geiger.
The second catastrophe followed closely on the heels of the first.
A few months later, UBS capitulated in the tax dispute with the USA and declared that it was prepared to hand over the data of wealthy clients who had potentially avoided paying tax with the help of the bank.
UBS also agreed to pay 780 million dollars consisting of repayment of unjustified profits from the business and a penalty.
UBS therefore more or less admitted having been an accessory to tax evasion.
At the same time, UBS lost something that had always been its advantage when competing for rich clients - the fog of secrecy.
Swiss banking secrecy was not the same after the scandal.
The CEO and the Chairman then resigned and.
the exodus of client money began.
The bank had lost its credibility in both of its core business divisions within a few months - in investment banking thanks to bad speculation and in asset management by aiding and abetting tax evasion.
And just as things had calmed down and UBS looked like it would start to turn things around, along came a disastrous rogue trader. A single trader gambled away 1.7 billion Euros before the bank noticed something was wrong.
One thing is clear - risk management in the investment banking division is still not working.
"The Adoboli incident clearly showed that risk control had changed too little," says Martin Janssen, economic and professor of finance at the Swiss Banking Institute of the University of Zurich.
The CFO of one major German bank also has no doubts: "The problem facing UBS is that it does not having a handle on risk control."
It was precisely the concept of caution that had long ago made Swiss bankers the guardians of the world's major assets - no excessive risk, but security for money, whether the world fell apart outside the Alpine republic or not.
The safes of Swiss banks had become a symbol of unshakeable reliability, just as Lindt and Sprüngli had come to symbolise sophisticated chocolate.
The UBS headquarters in Zurich still fit the cliché of the dignified Swiss private bank - just a bit bigger.
The location alone is classic.
The bank has its head office on Zurich's Bahnhofstrasse that leads from the main station directly to Zurich Lake, surrounded by the snow-capped peaks of the Swiss mountains.
The buildings are ostentatious and the shop rates are among the highest in Europe.
Jewellers such as Tiffany's are to be found here between traditional Swiss shops such as Confiserie Sprüngli.
The Swiss banks have resided here for hundreds of years - from the National Bank to the palace of Credit Suisse and elite private banks such as Julius Bär.
A heavy revolving door opens onto the UBS reception.
The walls within are clad in marble behind vast leather armchairs. There is a large sign to the "Safe" next to the bank's logo.
UBS knows that its clients are looking for - security.
But both the major Swiss banks, UBS and Credit Suisse, at some point ousted the Swiss banking concept - or betrayed it, as the head of one small Swiss private bank believes.
He would prefer not to see his name in the newspaper - he too, like all Swiss bankers, does business with the two major banks.
He believes UBS has grown too big - particularly in investment banking where the Anglo-Saxons are also very active.
In his opinion, the Swiss have nothing to add.
"And if they do, they have adapted to the customs of the Anglo-Saxons long ago."
It was in fact Anglo-Saxon investment banking that changed UBS, brought in its first big profits - and then the debacle. No other European financial institution has lost as much money in the subprime jungle as the major Swiss bank.
The catastrophe became evident on 15 October 2008.
"That Wednesday, the government coalition of a small country with a population of seven million undertook the largest rescue operation in the history of the nation," writes author Lukas Hässig in his book The UBS Crash.
The politicians approved up to 68 billion Swiss francs   (  around 45 billion Euros  )   to save the bank from bankruptcy.
How could it have come to that?
Talking to Swiss banks, they see the issue mainly in the size of UBS.
Two of the three major Swiss banks consolidated into a single, vast group in June 1998.
A bank was created that was already too big for small Switzerland when the merger was agreed - and a bank that continued to grow.
The fact that the two banks that went to form UBS complemented each other helped. One was a wealthy but sedate bank specialising in asset management in Zurich and the other was less wealthy, but much more internationalised.
The internationalised investment bankers suddenly had access to a lot of money that they could use to turn an almighty wheel.
Two names are connected with the rise of UBS: Peter Wuffli, Group CEO of UBS from 2001 to 2007, and Marcel Ospel, Chairman of the Board of Directors.
"I always thought that Wuffli and Ospel were a dream team," says the banking research, Hans Geiger.
"Wuffli, highly intellectual, modest, with a deep understanding of models and statistics, and Ospel, with gut instinct who had worked his way up from being a banker's apprentice."
But Ospel in the end relied on Wuffli.
And Wuffli ultimately may have made a critical error. "He thought his models were reality," says Geiger.
"That is tragic."
Tragic it may be.
Pride comes before a fall.
Employees of UBS clearly remember the management meetings where CEO Wuffli always repeated the same slogan - dethrone Goldman Sachs.
The American bank was the world's most powerful investment bank.
It led the "league tables" that documented the success of the banks at that time.
UBS wanted to get to the very top of the league.
It managed some of the way.
UBS was a major player in foreign exchange and stocks.
Commissioned management consultants, however, pointed out a weakness. In terms of what in banking terminology is referred to as "fixed income," UBS was far behind the very largest banks.
UBS had gaps in its US mortgage products.
To plug the hole, UBS entered on an adventure that almost cost it its existence.
Hungry for growth, the bank itself and a hedge fund founded by the bank invested in US subprime securities.
It developed into a vast machine that packaged up securities based on US mortgage credit and passed them on - while itself continuing to bear risks.
Even when other banks had long been looking for a way out, UBS carried on.
"UBS was buying as late as the summer of 2007 when the US housing market was in flames," says banking expert Geiger.
The greater the rise, the greater the fall.
One manager after the next had to go as the attempts to clean up proved more difficult than anticipated.
Posts at UBS became a game of musical chairs and remain uncertain to this day.
Any head of the major bank now has an almost impossible job.
He must find a strategy for a bank that has turned its back on all existing business models.
Banking expert Geiger already has an idea - quit investment banking, focus on asset management and turn back to Swiss roots.
The bank, however, is not   (  yet  )   prepared to go that far.
It is clear, nonetheless, that investment banking must shrink significantly.
The new head of the bank, Sergio Ermotti, plans to present his future strategy to the world on Tuesday.
The 51-year-old Italo-Swiss banker was actually only imagined as a transitional solution when the bank parted ways unexpectedly with his predecessor Grübel.
Since then, he has proved his mettle and is now to head UBS permanently, the Zurich-based bank announced on Tuesday.
Ermotti plans to take the investment bank back to where it was in the mid-90s.
He is cutting 3500 jobs.
But that will not be enough.
UBS needs a vision.
What is UBS?
How does it plan to make money?
Those are the questions Axel Weber is definitely already asking himself.
Publicly, he has only so far that he and his wife will look for a flat in Zurich.
Next year.
