Winning the prize in the Entrepreneur of the year helped Lukas Pytloun sell the franchise of his hotel.
The winner of last year's Entrepreneur of the year was a twenty-eight-year-old entrepreneur Lukas Pytloun from Liberec.
His success story is much like one from a movie.
Luk치코 Pytloun liked to travel.
And abroad he realized that Liberec lacks quality accommodation at a reasonable price.
Using his savings from foreign part-time jobs and a bank loan he purchased a ruined house with five apartments.
It was a great courage considering that at that time he was still a student of the third year at university.
"The ratio between quality and price of accommodation of the time in our country made me I try to do something," says Lukas Pytloun.
The first renovated apartment he rented to foreign workers.
All profits were invested back into the house, which he gradually remodeled into a boarding house with 54 beds.
Since then, he has managed to gradually open four guest houses in Liberec within the seven years of his business, along with two stylish restaurants and two hotels with a total capacity of 300 beds across all categories of accommodation.
Until recently, the most comfortable one was Pytloun four-star design hotel.
This year another one was open, equally good.
"We have signed a contract with a hotel in Ostrov u Tise, where we sold our franchise concept and others interested in the Pytloun hotel franchise are applying," says last year's number one trader.
"And the sale of the license to operate the hotel was very much influenced just by winning the competition Entrepreneur of the year," appreciatively adds Pytloun.
The victory brought more reputation and popularity in Liberec and its surroundings.
"People recognized me in the streets, often additionally congratulated me and I must say it felt good," he recalls.
He strongly encourages all who are eager to try something to participate in the competition.
It is not necessary to win, any visibility is good.
He says he still draws on contacts and acquaintances, which would perhaps not get otherwise.
"With some I've met through the competition, I started a regular business."
In his opinion, the glory associated with the success landed a bit on each employee.
And there are about seventy of them.
"I see them show greater loyalty and pride that they are involved in something that gained universal recognition."
"It's much more than just my personal success, as it is the result of good work of all of us together."
"Only my name is thrust into the forefront," says Luk치코 Pytloun modestly today.
